---
layout: post
title: "PAT-A 10"
description: "code solutions"
categories: [PAT-A]
tags: [C++]
redirect_from:
  - /2019/0/0/
---
PAT-A 10

1076 Forwards on Weibo （30 分）  

Weibo is known as the Chinese version of Twitter. One user on Weibo may have many followers, and may follow many other users as well. Hence a social network is formed with followers relations. When a user makes a post on Weibo, all his/her followers can view and forward his/her post, which can then be forwarded again by their followers. Now given a social network, you are supposed to calculate the maximum potential amount of forwards for any specific user, assuming that only L levels of indirect followers are counted.

## Input Specification:

Each input file contains one test case. For each case, the first line contains 2 positive integers: N (≤1000), the number of users; and L (≤6), the number of levels of indirect followers that are counted. Hence it is assumed that all the users are numbered from 1 to N. Then N lines follow, each in the format:

`M[i] user_list[i]`  

where M[i] (≤100) is the total number of people that user[i] follows; and user_list[i] is a list of the M[i] users that followed by user[i]. It is guaranteed that no one can follow oneself. All the numbers are separated by a space.

Then finally a positive K is given, followed by K UserID's for query.
    
## Output Specification:

For each UserID, you are supposed to print in one line the maximum potential amount of forwards this user can trigger, assuming that everyone who can view the initial post will forward it once, and that only L levels of indirect followers are counted.

## Sample Input:

	7 3
	3 2 3 4
	0
	2 5 6
	2 3 1
	2 3 4
	1 4
	1 5
	2 2 6
    
## Sample Output:
    
	4
	5
    
## my own thoughts
 
This problem is a simple BFS traverse problem, and I push this problem on my blog because that when I write my BFS codes, I made a very low level mistake,which is I wrongly put array vis[] to true when I dequeue but not enqueue. This will lead me to a situation that I can pass the first testpoint but fail to pass the other testpoints. That's really difficult for me to realize that I made mistakes in the BFS part,which I'm quite familiar with.  
  
    {% highlight ruby %}
	#include <iostream>
	#include <cstdio>
	#include <queue>
	#include <vector>
	using namespace std;

	const int maxn = 1010;
	bool vis[maxn] = {0};
	vector<int> g[maxn];
	int n;
	void bfs(int v,int len)
	{
		queue<int> q;
		int layer=0;
		int rear=v;
		q.push(v);
		vis[v]=true;
		while(!q.empty()&&layer<len)
		{
			int w=q.front();
			q.pop();
			for(int i=0;i<g[w].size();i++)
			{
				if(!vis[g[w][i]])
				{
					q.push(g[w][i]);
					vis[g[w][i]]=true;
				}
			}
			if(w==rear)
			{
				layer++;
				rear=q.back();
			}
		}
	}

	int main()
	{
		int l,k,v,num;

		scanf("%d %d",&n,&l);
		for(int i=1;i<=n;++i)
		{
			int num,tmp;
			scanf("%d",&num);
			for(int j=1;j<=num;++j)
			{
				scanf("%d",&tmp);
				g[tmp].push_back(i);
			}
		}
		scanf("%d",&k);
		for(int i=0;i<k;++i)
		{
			num=0;
			fill(vis,vis+maxn,false);
			scanf("%d",&v);
			bfs(v,l);
			for(int i=1;i<=n;++i)
				if(vis[i]&&i!=v)
					num++;
			printf("%d\n",num);
		}
		return 0;
	}
	{% endhighlight %}
---	
## reflection

DFS will also be available.  

---
  If you find there are faults in the source codes, any method connecting with me is welcomed.
