---
layout: post
title: "PAT-A 1049"
description: "code solutions"
categories: [PAT-A]
tags: [C++]
redirect_from:
  - /2019/02/28/
---
PAT-A 1049

1049 Counting Ones （30 分）

The task is simple: given any positive integer N, you are supposed to count the total number of 1's in the decimal form of the integers from 1 to N. For example, given N being 12, there are five 1's in 1, 10, 11, and 12.

## Input Specification:

Each input file contains one test case which gives the positive N (≤2^30).
    
## Output Specification:

For each test case, print the number of 1's in one line.

## Sample Input:

    12
    
## Sample Output:
    
    5
    
## my own thoughts
 
Obviously brute force will timed out,since we need to find other way to optimize it.  
Here we need to use our math knowledge to optimize it.  
We can analysis each single number of the given integer. If 1 is at the far right of the number, then the number of optional digits that satisfy the meaning of the question is the integer A of the other digits except 1. If 1 is at the far left of the number, then if the given number does not start with 1, then all the digit combinations on the right side satisfy the meaning of the question. If it starts with 1, then all the numbers that are smaller than the given integer except the leftmost position are all satisfied with the meaning of the question. If 1 is in the middle position,then the number of possible choices will be left*10^a,where left means the number that in the left of 1,and a means the amount of single numbers in the right of 1.  
It may sound quite difficult, but it'll will be quite simple in the code.   
  
    {% highlight ruby %}
    #include <cstdio>
    int main()
    {
        int n,a=1,ans=0;
        int left,now,right;/
        scanf("%d",&n);
        while(n/a!=0)
        {
            left = n/(a*10);
            now = n/a % 10;
            right = n%a;
            if(now == 0)
                ans+=left*a;
            else if(now==1)
                ans+=left*a+right+1;
            else
                ans+=(left+1)*a;
            a*=10;
        }
        printf("%d\n",ans);
        return 0;
    }
	{% endhighlight %}

---
  If you find there are faults in the source codes, any method connecting with me is welcomed.
