---
layout: post
title: "PAT-A 1047"
description: "code solutions"
categories: [PAT-A]
tags: [C++]
redirect_from:
  - /2019/02/28/
---
PAT-A 1047

1047 Student List for Course （25 分）  

Zhejiang University has 40,000 students and provides 2,500 courses. Now given the registered course list of each student, you are supposed to output the student name lists of all the courses.

## Input Specification:

Each input file contains one test case. For each case, the first line contains 2 numbers: N (≤40,000), the total number of students, and K (≤2,500), the total number of courses. Then N lines follow, each contains a student's name (3 capital English letters plus a one-digit number), a positive number C (≤20) which is the number of courses that this student has registered, and then followed by C course numbers. For the sake of simplicity, the courses are numbered from 1 to K.
    
## Output Specification:

For each test case, print the student name lists of all the courses in increasing order of the course numbers. For each course, first print in one line the course number and the number of registered students, separated by a space. Then output the students' names in alphabetical order. Each name occupies a line.

## Sample Input:

    10 5
	ZOE1 2 4 5
	ANN0 3 5 2 1
	BOB5 5 3 4 2 1 5
	JOE4 1 2
	JAY9 4 1 2 5 4
	FRA8 3 4 2 5
	DON2 2 4 5
	AMY7 1 5
	KAT3 3 5 4 2
	LOR6 4 2 4 1 5
    
## Sample Output:
    
    1 4
	ANN0
	BOB5
	JAY9
	LOR6
	2 7
	ANN0
	BOB5
	FRA8
	JAY9
	JOE4
	KAT3
	LOR6
	3 1
	BOB5
	4 7
	BOB5
	DON2
	FRA8
	JAY9
	KAT3
	LOR6
	ZOE1
	5 9
	AMY7
	ANN0
	BOB5
	DON2
	FRA8
	JAY9
	KAT3
	LOR6
	ZOE1
    
## my own thoughts
 
If use a vector and string to store each course's containing name, there will be two testpoints timed out. Thus we need to use two-dimensional array to store student's name. And there is a trick, which is to replace the name with name index so that we only need to put name indexes into the vector, and simply sort the integers instead of strings,which saves large amounts of time.  
Here is the code:  
  
    {% highlight ruby %}
    #include<stdio.h>
    #include<cstring>
    #include<vector>
    #include<algorithm>

    using namespace std;

    const int M = 2505;
    const int N = 40005;
    vector<int> stuList[M];
    char name[N][5];

    int getStuId(char name[]){
        int id = 0;
        for(int i = 0; i < 3; i++){
            id = id*26 + (name[i]-'A');
        }
        id = id*10 + name[3];

        return id;
    }

    bool cmp(int a, int b){
        return strcmp(name[a], name[b]) < 0;
    }

    int main(){

        int n,k;
        scanf("%d %d",&n, &k);

        int courseNum, courseId;
        for(int i = 0; i < n; i++){
            scanf("%s",name[i]);
            scanf("%d", &courseNum);
            for(int j = 0; j < courseNum; j++){
                scanf("%d", &courseId);
                stuList[courseId].push_back(i);
            }
        }

        for(int i = 1; i < k+1; i++){
            printf("%d %d\n", i, stuList[i].size());
            sort(stuList[i].begin(), stuList[i].end(), cmp);
            for(int j = 0; j < stuList[i].size(); j++){
                printf("%s\n",name[stuList[i][j]]);
            }
        }
        return 0;
    }
	{% endhighlight %}  

---
  If you find there are faults in the source codes, any method connecting with me is welcomed.
