---
layout: post
title: "PAT-A 1029"
description: "code solutions"
categories: [PAT-A]
tags: [C++]
redirect_from:
  - /2019/02/20/
---
PAT-A 1029

1029 Median （25 分）

Given an increasing sequence S of N integers, the median is the number at the middle position. For example, the median of S1 = { 11, 12, 13, 14 } is 12, and the median of S2 = { 9, 10, 15, 16, 17 } is 15. The median of two sequences is defined to be the median of the nondecreasing sequence which contains all the elements of both sequences. For example, the median of S1 and S2 is 13.

Given two increasing sequences of integers, you are asked to find their median.

## Input Specification:

Each input file contains one test case. Each case occupies 2 lines, each gives the information of a sequence. For each sequence, the first positive integer N (≤2×10^5) is the size of that sequence. Then N integers follow, separated by a space. It is guaranteed that all the integers are in the range of long int.
    
## Output Specification:

For each test case you should output the median of the two given sequences in a line.

## Sample Input:

    4 11 12 13 14
    5 9 10 15 16 17
    
## Sample Output:
    
    13
    
## my own thoughts
 
From the very beginning I use a set to put them together in order,and print the midean.This worked but failed to pass the last 4 test points for the time out.  
Then I decided to use two pointers to "merge" and compare,then counted the data in order and output the median,but I still failed to pass the last testpoint.  
  
    {% highlight ruby %}
	#include <cstdio>
	const int maxn = 1000010;
	const int INF = 0x7fffffff;
	int S1[maxn],S2[maxn];

	int main()
	{
		int n,m;
		scanf("%d",&n);
		for(int i=0;i<n;++i)
			scanf("%d",&S1[i]);
		scanf("%d",&m);
		for(int i=0;i<m;++i)
			scanf("%d",&S2[i]);
		S1[n]=S2[m]=INF;
		int medianPos = (n+m-1)/2;
		int i=0,j=0,count=0;
		while(count<medianPos)
		{
			if(S1[i]<S2[j])
				++i;
			else
				++j;
			++count;
		}
		if(S1[i]<S2[j])
			printf("%d\n",S1[i]);
		else
			printf("%d\n",S2[j]);
		return 0;
	}
	{% endhighlight %}
---	
## reflection

Finally I chose to store the first line of data and count/output the data while input the second line of data,which saved amounts of time and thus passed all testpoints.  
    {% highlight ruby %}
	#include <cstdio>
	const int maxn = 1000010;
	const int INF = 0x7fffffff;
	int S1[maxn];

	int main()
	{
		int n,m,S2,i,j;
		scanf("%d",&n);
		for(int i=0;i<n;++i)
			scanf("%d",&S1[i]);
		scanf("%d",&m);
		scanf("%d",&S2);
		S1[n]=INF;
		int medianPos = (n+m-1)/2;
		int count=0;
		i=j=0;
		while(count<medianPos)
		{
			if(S1[i]<S2)
				++i;
			else
			{
				++j;
				if(j<m)
					scanf("%d",&S2);
				else if(j==m)
					S2=INF;
				else
					break;
			}
			count++;
		}
		if(S1[i]<S2)
			printf("%d",S1[i]);
		else
			printf("%d",S2);
		return 0;
	}
	{% endhighlight %}

---
  If you find there are faults in the source codes, any method connecting with me is welcomed.
