---
layout: post
title: "PAT-A 1065"
description: "code solutions"
categories: [PAT-A]
tags: [C++]
redirect_from:
  - /2019/03/06/
---
PAT-A 1065

1065 A+B and C (64bit) （20 分）

Given three integers A, B and C in [−2^63,2^63], you are supposed to tell whether A+B>C.

## Input Specification:

The first line of the input gives the positive number of test cases, T (≤10). Then T test cases follow, each consists of a single line containing three integers A, B and C, separated by single spaces.
    
## Output Specification:

For each test case, output in one line Case #X: true if A+B>C, or Case #X: false otherwise, where X is the case number (starting from 1).

## Sample Input:

	3
	1 2 3
	2 3 4
	9223372036854775807 -9223372036854775808 0
    
## Sample Output:
    
	Case #1: false
	Case #2: true
	Case #3: false
    
## my own thoughts
 
This problem is really interesting, for the knowledge it requires is the fundemental of computer composition principle.  
Concretely,the long long int has a range from 2^-63 to 2^63,but in this problem, if A and B both bigger than 2^62 or smaller than 2^62,then A+B will exceed the limit of long long int.  
But it doesn't means that we can't use long long int to solve this problem, what we only need to know is the overflow rule of long long int. The overflow rule is related to the knowledge of the computer composition principle. It is not explained in detail here, but it needs to be known that if it is greater than the maximum value, the overflow value will start from 2^-63; similarly, if it is less than the minimum value, the overflow value will be start with the maximum value.  
If these knowledge are understood,then this problem will be quite simple. We can calculate the sum of A+B,which we use R to represent, if A and B both are positive but R is negative,then R must be overflow,which means R must be bigger than C,since R is bigger than all posiible value of the long long int range. Similarly,if A and B are both negative but R is positive,then we have reason to believe that R must be smaller than C,and also be smaller than any possible value of long long int range. And if there is no overflow, we can compare R and C in a normal way.  
Here are the codes:  
  
    {% highlight ruby %}
    #include <iostream>
    #include <cstdio>
    using namespace std;
    int main()
    {
        int t = 0;
        long long int A, B, C;
        cin >> t;
        for (int i = 1; i <= t; i++)
        {
            cin >> A >> B >> C;
            long long int r = A+B;
            if (A > 0 && B > 0 && r < 0)
                printf("Case #%d: true\n", i);
            else if (A < 0 && B < 0 && r >= 0)
                printf("Case #%d: false\n", i);
            else if (r>C)
                printf("Case #%d: true\n", i);
            else
                printf("Case #%d: false\n", i);

        }
        return 0;
    }
	{% endhighlight %}

---
  If you find there are faults in the source codes, any method connecting with me is welcomed.
