---
layout: post
title: "PAT-A 1007"
description: "code solutions"
categories: [PAT-A]
tags: [C++]
redirect_from:
  - /2019/01/06/
---
PAT-A 1007

1007 Maximum Subsequence Sum （25 分）

Given a sequence of K integers { N1, N2 , ..., NK}. A continuous subsequence is defined to be { Ni, Ni+1, ..., Nj} where 1≤i≤j≤K. The Maximum Subsequence is the continuous subsequence which has the largest sum of its elements. For example, given sequence { -2, 11, -4, 13, -5, -2 }, its maximum subsequence is { 11, -4, 13 } with the largest sum being 20.

Now you are supposed to find the largest sum, together with the first and the last numbers of the maximum subsequence.

## Input Specification:

Each input file contains one test case. Each case occupies two lines. The first line contains a positive integer K (≤10000). The second line contains K numbers, separated by a space.
    
## Output Specification:

For each test case, output in one line the largest sum, together with the first and the last numbers of the maximum subsequence. The numbers must be separated by one space, but there must be no extra space at the end of a line. In case that the maximum subsequence is not unique, output the one with the smallest indices i and j (as shown by the sample case). If all the K numbers are negative, then its maximum sum is defined to be 0, and you are supposed to output the first and the last numbers of the whole sequence.

## Sample Input:

    10
    -10 1 2 3 4 -5 -23 3 7 -21
    
## Sample Output:
    
    10 1 4
    
## my own thoughts
  This problem mainly requires the number of leaf nodes in each level. My thought is to build a tree and traverse it in level order,which need a struct named child/sibiling tree.  
  However,my code only got 19 points out of 30 and 2 test points failed. I haven't found and faults and I'll try to find them in next days.  
  Here are my own codes(ver 1.0)
  
    {% highlight ruby %}
	#include <iostream>
	#include <cstdio>
	using namespace std;
	#define MaxSize 10000
	typedef struct tree
	{
		struct tree* firstchild;
		struct tree* nextsibling;
		int data;
	}tree;
	void inserttr(int iddata,int partid,tree* root)
	{
		tree *p=root;
		if(root==NULL)
			return;
		if(p->data==partid)
		{
			if(p->firstchild)
			{
				p=p->firstchild;
				while(p->nextsibling)
					p=p->nextsibling;
				p->nextsibling=(tree*)malloc(sizeof(tree));
				p->nextsibling->data=iddata;
				p->nextsibling->nextsibling=NULL;
				p->nextsibling->firstchild=NULL;
				return;
			}
			else
			{
				p->firstchild=(tree*)malloc(sizeof(tree));
				p->firstchild->data=iddata;
				p->firstchild->firstchild=NULL;
				p->firstchild->nextsibling=NULL;
				return;
			}
		}
		inserttr(iddata,partid,p->firstchild);
		inserttr(iddata,partid,p->nextsibling);
	}
	int main()
	{
		int n,m;
		int id,k,idtmp;
		tree* p;
		tree* root = (tree*)malloc(sizeof(tree));
		root->firstchild=NULL;
		root->nextsibling=NULL;
		root->data=1;
		cin>>n>>m;
		for(int i=0;i<m;++i)
		{
			cin>>id>>k;
			for(int j=0;j<k;++j)
			{
				cin>>idtmp;
				inserttr(idtmp,id,root);
			}
		}
		if(!root->firstchild)
		{
			cout<<'1';
			return 0;
		}
		cout<<'0';
		tree* queue[MaxSize];
		int front=0,rear=0,last=0,num=0;
		queue[rear++]=root;
		last=rear;
		while(front!=rear)
		{
			p=queue[front++];
			if(!p->firstchild)
					num++;
			p=p->firstchild;
			while(p)
			{
				queue[rear++]=p;
				p=p->nextsibling;
			}
			if(front==last)
			{
				if(front!=1)
					cout<<' '<<num;
				num=0;
				last=rear;
			}
		}
		return 0;
	}
	{% endhighlight %}
---	
## reflection
I understand that the least demand to a readable code is that it can be run and it is correct,but in my opinion those imperfect codes still have their values and thus need to be stored. Therefore I will not only put the last and correct version on my blog, but also put those though have faults but did represent what I thought at that certain moment on here. I believe those versions reflects my gradual improvement and the shifting of my thoughts toward this problem.  
	As for the improvement, I think BFS and DFS are also feasible, and there is no need to build a new tree and use such a complex function to insert a new node into this tree by using DFS or BFS. 
	
---
  If you find there are faults in the source codes, any method connecting with me is welcomed.
