---
layout: post
title: "PAT-A 1064"
description: "code solutions"
categories: [PAT-A]
tags: [C++]
redirect_from:
  - /2019/03/06/
---
PAT-A 1064

1064 Complete Binary Search Tree （30 分）

A Binary Search Tree (BST) is recursively defined as a binary tree which has the following properties:

The left subtree of a node contains only nodes with keys less than the node's key.
The right subtree of a node contains only nodes with keys greater than or equal to the node's key.
Both the left and right subtrees must also be binary search trees.
A Complete Binary Tree (CBT) is a tree that is completely filled, with the possible exception of the bottom level, which is filled from left to right.

Now given a sequence of distinct non-negative integer keys, a unique BST can be constructed if it is required that the tree must also be a CBT. You are supposed to output the level order traversal sequence of this BST.

## Input Specification:

Each input file contains one test case. For each case, the first line contains a positive integer N (≤1000). Then N distinct non-negative integer keys are given in the next line. All the numbers in a line are separated by a space and are no greater than 2000.
    
## Output Specification:

For each test case, print in one line the level order traversal sequence of the corresponding complete binary search tree. All the numbers in a line must be separated by a space, and there must be no extra space at the end of the line.

## Sample Input:

	10
	1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0
    
## Sample Output:
    
	6 3 8 1 5 7 9 0 2 4
    
## my own thoughts
 
On the very beginning, what I intended to do is to build a binary search tree and perform level traverse.Then I found it's too difficult and complex for me. Then I stored the sequence into a temp array and sorted. As we all know, the inorder sequence of a binary search tree is arranged from small to large, thus what we need to do is create a new array named CBT,and perform inorder sequence to fill this array. Concretely,the lchild of node i will be 2*i,while the rchild of node i will be 2*i+1.So a recursive function can solve the problem,which breaks when 2*i/2*i+1 is bigger than n,the total number of the sequence.   
Finally, we got a CBT array,and the sequence of this array is the lever order of this complete binary search tree.   
It might sounds difficult and complex,but in fact it's literally simple in programming,both in length and complexity.
  
    {% highlight ruby %}
	#include <iostream>
	#include <cstdio>
	#include <algorithm>
	using namespace std;

	const int maxn = 1010;
	int CBT[maxn];
	int tmp[maxn];
	int n;
	int num=0;
	void inorder(int a)
	{
		if(a>n)
			return;
		inorder(2*a);
		CBT[a]=tmp[num++];
		inorder(2*a+1);
	}
	int main()
	{
		cin>>n;
		for(int i=0;i<n;++i)
			cin>>tmp[i];
		sort(tmp,tmp+n);
		inorder(1);
		cout<<CBT[1];
		for(int i=2;i<=n;++i)
			cout<<' '<<CBT[i];
		return 0;
	}
	{% endhighlight %}

---
  If you find there are faults in the source codes, any method connecting with me is welcomed.
