---
layout: post
title: "PAT-A 1037"
description: "code solutions"
categories: [PAT-A]
tags: [C++]
redirect_from:
  - /2019/02/25/
---
PAT-A 1037

1037 Magic Coupon （25 分）

The magic shop in Mars is offering some magic coupons. Each coupon has an integer N printed on it, meaning that when you use this coupon with a product, you may get N times the value of that product back! What is more, the shop also offers some bonus product for free. However, if you apply a coupon with a positive N to this bonus product, you will have to pay the shop N times the value of the bonus product... but hey, magically, they have some coupons with negative N's!

For example, given a set of coupons { 1 2 4 −1 }, and a set of product values { 7 6 −2 −3 } (in Mars dollars M$) where a negative value corresponds to a bonus product. You can apply coupon 3 (with N being 4) to product 1 (with value M$7) to get M$28 back; coupon 2 to product 2 to get M$12 back; and coupon 4 to product 4 to get M$3 back. On the other hand, if you apply coupon 3 to product 4, you will have to pay M$12 to the shop.

Each coupon and each product may be selected at most once. Your task is to get as much money back as possible.

## Input Specification:

Each input file contains one test case. For each case, the first line contains the number of coupons NC, followed by a line with NC coupon integers. Then the next line contains the number of products NP, followed by a line with NP product values. Here 1≤NC,NP≤10^5, and it is guaranteed that all the numbers will not exceed 2^30.
    
## Output Specification:

For each test case, simply print in a line the maximum amount of money you can get back.

## Sample Input:

	4
	1 2 4 -1
	4
	7 6 -2 -3
    
## Sample Output:
    
    43
    
## my own thoughts
 
Here I use the thought of two pointers,but the difference is that I broke it into two individual parts. Obviously there is no need to use coupons to buy products which has opposite sign. Thus what we need to do is just multiply those coupons and products whose product is positive(bigger than 0).  
Concretly,I sort the products array and the coupons array,and then I used a pointer to traverse the products and coupons which are positive,and then multiplied them. Then I used another pointer to traverse the products and coupons which are negative,which is to traverse in the opposite direction. And when the products began to become negative,stop traversing. The result is the maximum bonus.  
Here are the codes:  
  
    {% highlight ruby %}
    #include <iostream>
    #include <cstdio>
    #include <algorithm>

    using namespace std;

    int main()
    {
        int nc,np;
        int total;
        int coup[100010],prod[100010];

        total=0;
        cin>>nc;
        for(int i=0;i<nc;i++)
            cin>>coup[i];
        cin>>np;
        for(int i=0;i<np;i++)
            cin>>prod[i];

        sort(coup,coup+nc);
        sort(prod,prod+np);
        for(int i=0,j=0;i<nc,j<np;++i,++j)
        {
            if(coup[i]<0&&prod[j]<0)
                total+=coup[i]*prod[j];
            if(coup[i]*prod[j]<0)
                break;
        }
        for(int i=nc-1,j=np-1;i>=0,j>=0;--i,--j)
        {
            if(coup[i]>0&&prod[j]>0)
                total+=coup[i]*prod[j];
            if(coup[i]*prod[j]<0)
                break;
        }

        cout<<total;
        return 0;
    }
	{% endhighlight %}
---	
## reflection

I think my method is literally fast and simple,thus I haven't find anything to improve yet.  

---
  If you find there are faults in the source codes, any method connecting with me is welcomed.
