---
layout: post
title: "PAT-A 1087"
description: "code solutions"
categories: [PAT-A]
tags: [C++]
redirect_from:
  - /2019/03/08/
---
PAT-A 1087

1087 All Roads Lead to Rome （30 分）  

Indeed there are many different tourist routes from our city to Rome. You are supposed to find your clients the route with the least cost while gaining the most happiness.

## Input Specification:

Each input file contains one test case. For each case, the first line contains 2 positive integers N (2≤N≤200), the number of cities, and K, the total number of routes between pairs of cities; followed by the name of the starting city. The next N−1 lines each gives the name of a city and an integer that represents the happiness one can gain from that city, except the starting city. Then K lines follow, each describes a route between two cities in the format City1 City2 Cost. Here the name of a city is a string of 3 capital English letters, and the destination is always ROM which represents Rome.
    
## Output Specification:

For each test case, we are supposed to find the route with the least cost. If such a route is not unique, the one with the maximum happiness will be recommanded. If such a route is still not unique, then we output the one with the maximum average happiness -- it is guaranteed by the judge that such a solution exists and is unique.

Hence in the first line of output, you must print 4 numbers: the number of different routes with the least cost, the cost, the happiness, and the average happiness (take the integer part only) of the recommanded route. Then in the next line, you are supposed to print the route in the format City1->City2->...->ROM.

## Sample Input:

	6 7 HZH
	ROM 100
	PKN 40
	GDN 55
	PRS 95
	BLN 80
	ROM GDN 1
	BLN ROM 1
	HZH PKN 1
	PRS ROM 2
	BLN HZH 2
	PKN GDN 1
	HZH PRS 1
    
## Sample Output:
    
	3 3 195 97
	HZH->PRS->ROM
    
## my own thoughts
 
Firstly I use a hash function to convert string to int but then I found it's hard to traverse in an array.Then I use two maps to store the correspondence of the string and the integer. Then what we need to do is use the template of DFS+Dijkstra to solve this problem.Though this problem is a little complex, but it's literally easy while using this quite famaliar template.  
  
    {% highlight ruby %}
	#include <iostream>
	#include <cstdio>
	#include <vector>
	#include <cstring>
	#include <map>
	#include <string>
	#include <algorithm>
	using namespace std;

	const int maxn = 210;
	const int INF = 1000000000;
	bool vis[maxn] = {0};
	int d[maxn];
	map<string,int> cityname;
	map<int,string> citynum;
	int g[maxn][maxn];
	int w[maxn]={0};
	int numpath = 0;
	int optvalue = 0;
	double opt2value = 0;
	int n,k,st;
	vector<int> pre[maxn];
	vector<int> tmppath,path;

	void dijkstra(int s)
	{
		fill(d,d+maxn,INF);
		d[s]=0;
		for(int i=0;i<n;++i)
		{
			int u=-1,minn=INF;
			for(int j=0;j<n;++j)
			{
				if(!vis[j]&&d[j]<minn)
				{
					u = j;
					minn = d[j];
				}
			}
			if(u == -1)
				return;
			vis[u] = true;
			for(int w=0;w<n;++w)
			{
				if(!vis[w]&&g[u][w]!=INF)
				{
					if(d[w]>d[u]+g[u][w])
					{
						d[w] = d[u] + g[u][w];
						pre[w].clear();
						pre[w].push_back(u);
					}
					else if(d[w]==d[u]+g[w][u])
						pre[w].push_back(u);
				}
			}
		}
	}

	void dfs(int v)
	{

		if(v==st)
		{
			int value = 0;
			double value2 = 0;
			tmppath.push_back(v);
			numpath++;
			for(int i=tmppath.size()-1;i>=0;i--)
				value+=w[tmppath[i]];
			value2 = 1.0 * value / (tmppath.size()-1);
			if(value>optvalue)
			{
				opt2value = value2;
				optvalue=value;
				path=tmppath;
			}
			else if(value==optvalue && value2>opt2value)
			{
				path = tmppath;
				opt2value = value2;
			}
			tmppath.pop_back();
			return;
		}
		tmppath.push_back(v);
		for(int i=0;i<pre[v].size();++i)
		{
			dfs(pre[v][i]);
		}
		tmppath.pop_back();
	}


	int main()
	{
		string start,city1,city2;


		cin>>n>>k>>start;
		st = 0;
		cityname[start] = 0;
		citynum[0] = start;
		fill(g[0],g[0]+maxn*maxn,INF);
		for(int i=1;i<=n-1;++i)
		{
			cin>>city1>>w[i];
			cityname[city1]=i;
			citynum[i]=city1;
		}
		for(int i=0;i<k;++i)
		{
			cin>>city1>>city2;
			int c1 = cityname[city1],c2 = cityname[city2];
			cin>>g[c1][c2];
			g[c2][c1]=g[c1][c2];
		}
		dijkstra(0);
		int rom = cityname["ROM"];
		dfs(rom);
		printf("%d %d %d %d\n",numpath,d[rom],optvalue,(int)opt2value);
		for(int i=path.size()-1;i>=0;i--)
		{
			int tmp = path[i];
			cout<<citynum[tmp];
			if(i>0)
				printf("->");
		}
		return 0;
	}
	{% endhighlight %}
---	
## reflection

Simply using dijkstra algorithm will also be OK,and it's less complex in codes but more difficult in thinking.

---
  If you find there are faults in the source codes, any method connecting with me is welcomed.
