---
layout: post
title: "PAT-A 1039"
description: "code solutions"
categories: [PAT-A]
tags: [C++]
redirect_from:
  - /2019/02/26/
---
PAT-A 1039

1039 Course List for Student （25 分）

Zhejiang University has 40000 students and provides 2500 courses. Now given the student name lists of all the courses, you are supposed to output the registered course list for each student who comes for a query.

## Input Specification:

Each input file contains one test case. For each case, the first line contains 2 positive integers: N (≤40,000), the number of students who look for their course lists, and K (≤2,500), the total number of courses. Then the student name lists are given for the courses (numbered from 1 to K) in the following format: for each course i, first the course index i and the number of registered students Ni (≤200) are given in a line. Then in the next line, Ni student names are given. A student name consists of 3 capital English letters plus a one-digit number. Finally the last line contains the N names of students who come for a query. All the names and numbers in a line are separated by a space.
    
## Output Specification:

For each test case, print your results in N lines. Each line corresponds to one student, in the following format: first print the student's name, then the total number of registered courses of that student, and finally the indices of the courses in increasing order. The query results must be printed in the same order as input. All the data in a line must be separated by a space, with no extra space at the end of the line.

## Sample Input:

	11 5
	4 7
	BOB5 DON2 FRA8 JAY9 KAT3 LOR6 ZOE1
	1 4
	ANN0 BOB5 JAY9 LOR6
	2 7
	ANN0 BOB5 FRA8 JAY9 JOE4 KAT3 LOR6
	3 1
	BOB5
	5 9
	AMY7 ANN0 BOB5 DON2 FRA8 JAY9 KAT3 LOR6 ZOE1
	ZOE1 ANN0 BOB5 JOE4 JAY9 FRA8 DON2 AMY7 KAT3 LOR6 NON9
    
## Sample Output:
    
    ZOE1 2 4 5
	ANN0 3 1 2 5
	BOB5 5 1 2 3 4 5
	JOE4 1 2
	JAY9 4 1 2 4 5
	FRA8 3 2 4 5
	DON2 2 4 5
	AMY7 1 5
	KAT3 3 2 4 5
	LOR6 4 1 2 4 5
	NON9 0
    
## my own thoughts
 
Firstly,I used a map to store the students' names. The map's key is a string which is student's name,and the value is a vector which stores the student's course numbers.   
  
    {% highlight ruby %}
        #include <iostream>
    #include <cstdio>
    #include <vector>
    #include <string>
    #include <map>
    #include <algorithm>
    using namespace std;

    int main()
    {
        int n,k;
        int ci,cn;
        string tmp;
        map<string,vector<int>> p;

        scanf("%d %d",&n,&k);
        for(int i=0;i<k;++i)
        {
            scanf("%d %d",&ci,&cn);
            for(int j=0;j<cn;++j)
            {
                cin>>tmp;
                p[tmp].push_back(ci);
            }
        }
        for(int i=0;i<n;++i)
        {
            cin>>tmp;
            sort(p[tmp].begin(),p[tmp].end());
            cout<<tmp<<' ';
            printf("%d",p[tmp].size());
            for(int j=0;j<p[tmp].size();++j)
                cout<<' '<<p[tmp][j];
            printf("\n");
        }
        return 0;
    }
	{% endhighlight %}
---	
## reflection

Obviously map and vector cost too much time and thus cannot pass the last testpoints. Then I seek other method and use another way,which in detail is use the thought of hash to convert their name into numbers,and then just use a vector will solve this problem.  
Here is the code:  

	{%highlight ruby%}
	#include <cstdio>
	#include <cstring>
	#include <vector>
	#include <algorithm>

	using namespace std;

	const int maxx = 26 * 26 * 26 * 10 + 1;

	int hashName(const char *name){
		return (name[0] - 'A') * 26 * 26 * 10\
			+ (name[1] - 'A') * 26 * 10\
			+ (name[2] - 'A') * 10\
			+ (name[3] - '0');
	}

	vector<int> course[maxx];

	int main(){
		int n, k, cid, sn, hname;
		char name[5];
		vector<int>::iterator ib, ie;

		scanf("%d %d", &n, &k);
		for (int i = 0; i < k; ++i){
			scanf("%d %d", &cid, &sn);
			for (int j = 0; j < sn; ++j){
				scanf("%s", name);
				hname = hashName(name);
				course[hname].push_back(cid);
			}
		}

		for (int i = 0; i < n; ++i){
			scanf("%s", name);
			hname = hashName(name);

			printf("%s", name);
			printf(" %d", course[hname].size());

			sort(course[hname].begin(), course[hname].end());

			ib = course[hname].begin();
			ie = course[hname].end();

			for (; ib != ie; ++ib){
				printf(" %d", *ib);
			}
			printf("\n");
		}
		return 0;
	}
	{%endhighlight%}

---
  If you find there are faults in the source codes, any method connecting with me is welcomed.
