---
layout: post
title: "PAT-A 1004"
description: "code solutions"
categories: [PAT-A]
tags: [C++]
redirect_from:
  - /2019/01/04/
---
PAT-A 1004

1004 Counting Leaves （30 分）

A family hierarchy is usually presented by a pedigree tree. Your job is to count those family members who have no child.

## Input Specification:
Each input file contains one test case. Each case starts with a line containing 0<N<100, the number of nodes in a tree, and M (<N), the number of non-leaf nodes. Then M lines follow, each in the format:
`ID K ID[1] ID[2] ... ID[K]`
where ID is a two-digit number representing a given non-leaf node, K is the number of its children, followed by a sequence of two-digit ID's of its children. For the sake of simplicity, let us fix the root ID to be 01.

The input ends with N being 0. That case must NOT be processed.
    
## Output Specification:
For each test case, you are supposed to count those family members who have no child for every seniority level starting from the root. The numbers must be printed in a line, separated by a space, and there must be no extra space at the end of each line.

The sample case represents a tree with only 2 nodes, where 01 is the root and 02 is its only child. Hence on the root 01 level, there is 0 leaf node; and on the next level, there is 1 leaf node. Then we should output 0 1 in a line.

## Sample Input:

    2 1
    01 1 02
    
## Sample Output:
    
    0 1
    
## my own thoughts
  This problem mainly requires the number of leaf nodes in each level. My thought is to build a tree and traverse it in level order,which need a struct named child/sibiling tree.  
  However,my code only got 19 points out of 30 and 2 test points failed. I haven't found and faults and I'll try to find them in next days.  
  Here are my own codes(ver 1.0)
  
    {% highlight ruby %}
	#include <iostream>
	#include <cstdio>
	using namespace std;
	#define MaxSize 10000
	typedef struct tree
	{
		struct tree* firstchild;
		struct tree* nextsibling;
		int data;
	}tree;
	void inserttr(int iddata,int partid,tree* root)
	{
		tree *p=root;
		if(root==NULL)
			return;
		if(p->data==partid)
		{
			if(p->firstchild)
			{
				p=p->firstchild;
				while(p->nextsibling)
					p=p->nextsibling;
				p->nextsibling=(tree*)malloc(sizeof(tree));
				p->nextsibling->data=iddata;
				p->nextsibling->nextsibling=NULL;
				p->nextsibling->firstchild=NULL;
				return;
			}
			else
			{
				p->firstchild=(tree*)malloc(sizeof(tree));
				p->firstchild->data=iddata;
				p->firstchild->firstchild=NULL;
				p->firstchild->nextsibling=NULL;
				return;
			}
		}
		inserttr(iddata,partid,p->firstchild);
		inserttr(iddata,partid,p->nextsibling);
	}
	int main()
	{
		int n,m;
		int id,k,idtmp;
		tree* p;
		tree* root = (tree*)malloc(sizeof(tree));
		root->firstchild=NULL;
		root->nextsibling=NULL;
		root->data=1;
		cin>>n>>m;
		for(int i=0;i<m;++i)
		{
			cin>>id>>k;
			for(int j=0;j<k;++j)
			{
				cin>>idtmp;
				inserttr(idtmp,id,root);
			}
		}
		if(!root->firstchild)
		{
			cout<<'1';
			return 0;
		}
		cout<<'0';
		tree* queue[MaxSize];
		int front=0,rear=0,last=0,num=0;
		queue[rear++]=root;
		last=rear;
		while(front!=rear)
		{
			p=queue[front++];
			if(!p->firstchild)
					num++;
			p=p->firstchild;
			while(p)
			{
				queue[rear++]=p;
				p=p->nextsibling;
			}
			if(front==last)
			{
				if(front!=1)
					cout<<' '<<num;
				num=0;
				last=rear;
			}
		}
		return 0;
	}
	{% endhighlight %}
---	
## reflection
I understand that the least demand to a readable code is that it can be run and it is correct,but in my opinion those imperfect codes still have their values and thus need to be stored. Therefore I will not only put the last and correct version on my blog, but also put those though have faults but did represent what I thought at that certain moment on here. I believe those versions reflects my gradual improvement and the shifting of my thoughts toward this problem.  
	As for the improvement, I think BFS and DFS are also feasible, and there is no need to build a new tree and use such a complex function to insert a new node into this tree by using DFS or BFS.   
Here are the DFS version codes:  

    {%highlight ruby%}
    #include <iostream>
    #include <cstdio>
    #include <vector>
    #include <algorithm>
    using namespace std;

    const int N=110;
    vector<int> G[N];
    int leaf[N]={0};
    int max_h=1;
    void DFS(int index,int h)
    {
        max_h=max(h,max_h);
        if(G[index].size()==0)
        {
            leaf[h]++;
            return;
        }
        for(int i=0;i<G[index].size();i++)
            DFS(G[index][i],h+1);
    }
    int main()
    {
        int n,m,parent,child,k;
        scanf("%d%d",&n,&m);
        for(int i=0;i<m;++i)
        {
            scanf("%d%d",&parent,&k);
            for(int j=0;j<k;++j)
            {
                scanf("%d",&child);
                G[parent].push_back(child);
            }
        }
        DFS(1,1);
        printf("%d",leaf[1]);
        for(int i=2;i<=max_h;++i)
            printf(" %d",leaf[i]);
        return 0;
    }
	{%endhighlight%}
	
And here are the BFS version codes. In fact,the first version is based on BFS too.But I feel wierd that I can't get full scores by using that version. Maybe because of the using of Child/Sibling tree structure? I can't find any reason now but I'll keep on doing it.

	{%highlight ruby%}
    #include <iostream>
    #include <cstdio>
    #include <vector>
    #include <queue>
    using namespace std;

    const int N=110;
    vector<int> G[N];
    int h[N]={0};
    int leaf[N]={0};
    int max_h=0;
    void BFS()
    {
        queue<int> Q;
        Q.push(1);
        while(!Q.empty())
        {
            int id=Q.front();
            Q.pop();
            max_h=max(max_h,h[id]);
            if(G[id].size()==0)
                leaf[h[id]]++;
            for(int i=0;i<G[id].size();++i)
            {
                h[G[id][i]]=h[id]+1;
                Q.push(G[id][i]);
            }
        }
    }
    int main()
    {
        int n,m,parent,child,k;
        scanf("%d%d",&n,&m);
        for(int i=0;i<m;++i)
        {
            scanf("%d%d",&parent,&k);
            for(int j=0;j<k;++j)
            {
                scanf("%d",&child);
                G[parent].push_back(child);
            }
        }
        h[1]=1;
        BFS();
        printf("%d",leaf[1]);
        for(int i=2;i<=max_h;++i)
            printf(" %d",leaf[i]);
        return 0;
    }
	{%endhighlight%}
	
---
  If you find there are faults in the source codes, any method connecting with me is welcomed.
