---
layout: post
title: "PAT-A 1003"
description: "code solutions"
categories: [PAT-A]
tags: [C++]
redirect_from:
  - /2019/01/04/
---
PAT-A 1003

1003 Emergency （25 分）

As an emergency rescue team leader of a city, you are given a special map of your country. The map shows several scattered cities connected by some roads. Amount of rescue teams in each city and the length of each road between any pair of cities are marked on the map. When there is an emergency call to you from some other city, your job is to lead your men to the place as quickly as possible, and at the mean time, call up as many hands on the way as possible.

## Input Specification:
Each input file contains one test case. For each test case, the first line contains 4 positive integers:N(<=500)- the number of cities (and the cities are numbered from 0 to N-1),M- the number of roads, C1 and C2 - the cities that you are currently in and that you must save, respectively. The next line contains N integers, where the i-th integer is the number of rescue teams in the i-th city. Then M lines follow, each describes a road with three integers c1,c2 and L, which are the pair of cities connected by a road and the length of that road, respectively. It is guaranteed that there exists at least one path from C1 to C2. 
    
## Output Specification:
For each test case, print in one line two numbers: the number of different shortest paths between C1 and C2, and the maximum amount of rescue teams you can possibly gather. All the numbers in a line must be separated by exactly one space, and there is no extra space allowed at the end of a line.

## Sample Input:

    5 6 0 2
    1 2 1 5 3
    0 1 1
    0 2 2
    0 3 1
    1 2 1
    2 4 1
    3 4 1
    
## Sample Output:
    
    2 4
    
## my own thoughts
  This problem mainly requires the number of leaf nodes in each level. My thought is to build a tree and traverse it in level order,which need a struct named child/sibiling tree.  
  However,my code only got 19 points out of 30 and 2 test points failed. I haven't found and faults and I'll try to find them in next days.  
  Here are my own codes(ver 1.0)
  
    {% highlight ruby %}
	#include <iostream>
	#include <cstdio>
	using namespace std;
	#define MaxSize 10000
	typedef struct tree
	{
		struct tree* firstchild;
		struct tree* nextsibling;
		int data;
	}tree;
	void inserttr(int iddata,int partid,tree* root)
	{
		tree *p=root;
		if(root==NULL)
			return;
		if(p->data==partid)
		{
			if(p->firstchild)
			{
				p=p->firstchild;
				while(p->nextsibling)
					p=p->nextsibling;
				p->nextsibling=(tree*)malloc(sizeof(tree));
				p->nextsibling->data=iddata;
				p->nextsibling->nextsibling=NULL;
				p->nextsibling->firstchild=NULL;
				return;
			}
			else
			{
				p->firstchild=(tree*)malloc(sizeof(tree));
				p->firstchild->data=iddata;
				p->firstchild->firstchild=NULL;
				p->firstchild->nextsibling=NULL;
				return;
			}
		}
		inserttr(iddata,partid,p->firstchild);
		inserttr(iddata,partid,p->nextsibling);
	}
	int main()
	{
		int n,m;
		int id,k,idtmp;
		tree* p;
		tree* root = (tree*)malloc(sizeof(tree));
		root->firstchild=NULL;
		root->nextsibling=NULL;
		root->data=1;
		cin>>n>>m;
		for(int i=0;i<m;++i)
		{
			cin>>id>>k;
			for(int j=0;j<k;++j)
			{
				cin>>idtmp;
				inserttr(idtmp,id,root);
			}
		}
		if(!root->firstchild)
		{
			cout<<'1';
			return 0;
		}
		cout<<'0';
		tree* queue[MaxSize];
		int front=0,rear=0,last=0,num=0;
		queue[rear++]=root;
		last=rear;
		while(front!=rear)
		{
			p=queue[front++];
			if(!p->firstchild)
					num++;
			p=p->firstchild;
			while(p)
			{
				queue[rear++]=p;
				p=p->nextsibling;
			}
			if(front==last)
			{
				if(front!=1)
					cout<<' '<<num;
				num=0;
				last=rear;
			}
		}
		return 0;
	}
	{% endhighlight %}
---	
## reflection
I understand that the least demand to a readable code is that it can be run and it is correct,but in my opinion those imperfect codes still have their values and thus need to be stored. Therefore I will not only put the last and correct version on my blog, but also put those though have faults but did represent what I thought at that certain moment on here. I believe those versions reflects my gradual improvement and the shifting of my thoughts toward this problem.  
	As for the improvement, I think BFS and DFS are also feasible, and there is no need to build a new tree and use such a complex function to insert a new node into this tree by using DFS or BFS. 
	
---
  If you find there are faults in the source codes, any method connecting with me is welcomed.
