---
layout: post
title: "PAT-A 1063"
description: "code solutions"
categories: [PAT-A]
tags: [C++]
redirect_from:
  - /2019/03/06/
---
PAT-A 1063

1063 Set Similarity （25 分）

Given two sets of integers, the similarity of the sets is defined to be Nc/Nt×100%, where Nc is the number of distinct common numbers shared by the two sets, and Nt is the total number of distinct numbers in the two sets. Your job is to calculate the similarity of any given pair of sets.

## Input Specification:

Each input file contains one test case. Each case first gives a positive integer N (≤50) which is the total number of sets. Then N lines follow, each gives a set with a positive M (≤10^4) and followed by M integers in the range [0,10^9]. After the input of sets, a positive integer K (≤2000) is given, followed by K lines of queries. Each query gives a pair of set numbers (the sets are numbered from 1 to N). All the numbers in a line are separated by a space.
    
## Output Specification:

For each query, print in one line the similarity of the sets, in the percentage form accurate up to 1 decimal place.

## Sample Input:

	3
	3 99 87 101
	4 87 101 5 87
	7 99 101 18 5 135 18 99
	2
	1 2
	1 3
    
## Sample Output:
    
	50.0%
	33.3%
    
## my own thoughts
 
In this problem, I used a vector array to store each set. And I used a function of vector named unique() to find the repeated elements after sorting the vector.Then I deleted those repeated elements by using erase() function.  
Codes are as below:  
  
    {% highlight ruby %}
	#include <iostream>
	#include <cstdio>
	#include <vector>
	#include <algorithm>
	using namespace std;

	int main()
	{
		int n,m,k,tmp,totnum,comnum;
		int nc,nt;
		vector<int> q[51];
		scanf("%d",&n);
		for(int i=1;i<=n;++i)
		{
			int num;
			scanf("%d",&num);
			for(int j=0;j<num;++j)
			{
				scanf("%d",&tmp);
				q[i].push_back(tmp);
			}
			sort(q[i].begin(),q[i].end());
			q[i].erase(unique(q[i].begin(), q[i].end()), q[i].end());
		}
		scanf("%d",&m);
		for(int i=0;i<m;++i)
		{
			comnum=0;
			totnum=0;
			scanf("%d %d",&nc,&nt);
			int j=0,k=0;
			while(j<q[nt].size()&&k<q[nc].size())
			{
				if(q[nt][j]<q[nc][k])
					j++;
				else if(q[nt][j]>q[nc][k])
					k++;
				else
				{
					j++;
					k++;
					comnum++;
				}
			}
			totnum = q[nt].size()+q[nc].size()-comnum;
			float per = (comnum*100.0)/(totnum*1.0);
			printf("%.1f\%\n",per);
		}
		return 0;
	}
	{% endhighlight %}
---	  

## reflection

Actually this problem mainly simulates a set, then it's quite natural to find that we can use a truly set to complete this problem. The set has two significant advantages in this problem: Firstly there is no need to sort for all elements in a set will be sorted automatically by a red-black tree. Secondly all elements in a set are distinct,thus there is no need to erase the repeated elemens.Thus in conclusion using a set will become easier.      

---
  If you find there are faults in the source codes, any method connecting with me is welcomed.
