---
layout: post
title: "PAT-A 1013"
description: "code solutions"
categories: [PAT-A]
tags: [C++]
redirect_from:
  - /2019/01/21/
---
PAT-A 1013

1013 Battle Over Cities （25 分）

It is vitally important to have all the cities connected by highways in a war. If a city is occupied by the enemy, all the highways from/toward that city are closed. We must know immediately if we need to repair any other highways to keep the rest of the cities connected. Given the map of cities which have all the remaining highways marked, you are supposed to tell the number of highways need to be repaired, quickly.

For example, if we have 3 cities and 2 highways connecting city1-city2 and city1-city3. Then if city1 is occupied by the enemy, we must have 1 highway repaired, that is the highway city2-city3.

## Input Specification:

Each input file contains one test case. Each case starts with a line containing 3 numbers N (<1000), M and K, which are the total number of cities, the number of remaining highways, and the number of cities to be checked, respectively. Then M lines follow, each describes a highway by 2 integers, which are the numbers of the cities the highway connects. The cities are numbered from 1 to N. Finally there is a line containing K numbers, which represent the cities we concern.
    
## Output Specification:

For each of the K cities, output in a line the number of highways need to be repaired if that city is lost.

The sample case represents a tree with only 2 nodes, where 01 is the root and 02 is its only child. Hence on the root 01 level, there is 0 leaf node; and on the next level, there is 1 leaf node. Then we should output 0 1 in a line.

## Sample Input:

    3 2 3
	1 2
	1 3
	1 2 3
    
## Sample Output:
    
    1
	0
	0
    
## my own thoughts
	
This problem is a simple DFS problem,which goal is to find the number of connected components in a graph.  
Codes are as below:
  
    {% highlight ruby %}
	#include <iostream>
	#include <algorithm>
	using namespace std;

	int N,M,K;
	bool edge[1010][1010]={0};
	bool vis[1010]={0};
	void DFS(int root){
		vis[root]=true;
		for(int i=1;i<=N;i++){
			if(edge[root][i]&&vis[i]==false){
				DFS(i);
			}
		}
	}
	int DFStrav(){
		int g=0;
		for(int i=1;i<=N;i++){
			if(vis[i]==false){
				DFS(i);
				g++;
			}
		}
		return g;
	}
	int main(){
		scanf("%d%d%d",&N,&M,&K);
		for(int i=0;i<M;i++){
			int c1,c2;
			scanf("%d%d",&c1,&c2);
			edge[c1][c2]=edge[c2][c1]=true;
		}
		for(int i=0;i<K;i++){
			int temp;
			scanf("%d",&temp);
			vis[temp]=true;
			printf("%d\n",DFStrav()-1);
			fill(vis,vis+1010,0);
		}
		return 0;
	}
	{% endhighlight %}	
---
  If you find there are faults in the source codes, any method connecting with me is welcomed.
