---
layout: post
title: "PAT-A 1086"
description: "code solutions"
categories: [PAT-A]
tags: [C++]
redirect_from:
  - /2019/03/08/
---
PAT-A 1086

1086 Tree Traversals Again （25 分）  

An inorder binary tree traversal can be implemented in a non-recursive way with a stack. For example, suppose that when a 6-node binary tree (with the keys numbered from 1 to 6) is traversed, the stack operations are: push(1); push(2); push(3); pop(); pop(); push(4); pop(); pop(); push(5); push(6); pop(); pop(). Then a unique binary tree (shown in Figure 1) can be generated from this sequence of operations. Your task is to give the postorder traversal sequence of this tree.

## Input Specification:

Each input file contains one test case. For each case, the first line contains a positive integer N (≤30) which is the total number of nodes in a tree (and hence the nodes are numbered from 1 to N). Then 2N lines follow, each describes a stack operation in the format: "Push X" where X is the index of the node being pushed onto the stack; or "Pop" meaning to pop one node from the stack.
    
## Output Specification:

For each test case, print the postorder traversal sequence of the corresponding tree in one line. A solution is guaranteed to exist. All the numbers must be separated by exactly one space, and there must be no extra space at the end of the line.

## Sample Input:

	6
	Push 1
	Push 2
	Push 3
	Pop
	Pop
	Push 4
	Pop
	Pop
	Push 5
	Push 6
	Pop
	Pop
    
## Sample Output:
    
	3 4 2 6 5 1
    
## my own thoughts
 
It is crystal clear that the input sequence of stack is the preorder traverse sequence of binary search tree,and the output sequence of stack is the inorder traverse sequence.  
Then this problem will switch to another problem,which is to get the postorder traverse sequence while given preorder and inorder traverse sequence.The method is similar with building a new tree,and the difference is that we need to traverse the right child first and left child second while writing recruit function,and every node we visit will put the last vacant position in the postorder sequence array.  
  
    {% highlight ruby %}
	#include <iostream>
	#include <cstdio>
	#include <string>
	#include <stack>
	using namespace std;
	int ppo[40];
	int len;
	void postorder(int po[],int io[],int pl,int pr,int il,int ir)
	{
		if(pl>pr||il>ir)
			return;
		int i;
		for(i=il;i<ir;++i)
			if(io[i]==po[pl])
				break;
		ppo[len]=io[i];
		len--;
		postorder(po,io,pl+i-il+1,pr,i+1,ir);
		postorder(po,io,pl+1,pl+i-il,il,i-1);
	}

	int main()
	{
		int po[40],io[40];
		int n,node;
		int ionum,ponum;
		string str;
		stack<int> s;


		cin>>n;
		ionum = ponum = 1;
		len=n;
		for(int i=0;i<2*n;++i)
		{
			cin>>str;
			if(str=="Push")
			{
				cin>>node;
				s.push(node);
				po[ponum++] = node;
			}
			else if(str == "Pop")
			{
				node = s.top();
				s.pop();
				io[ionum++] = node;
			}
		}
		postorder(po,io,1,n,1,n);
		printf("%d",ppo[1]);
		for(int i=2;i<=n;++i)
			printf(" %d",ppo[i]);
		return 0;
	}
	{% endhighlight %}

---
  If you find there are faults in the source codes, any method connecting with me is welcomed.
