---
layout: post
title: "PAT-A 1040"
description: "code solutions"
categories: [PAT-A]
tags: [C++]
redirect_from:
  - /2019/02/26/
---
PAT-A 1040

1040 Longest Symmetric String （25 分）

Given a string, you are supposed to output the length of the longest symmetric sub-string. For example, given Is PAT&TAP symmetric?, the longest symmetric sub-string is s PAT&TAP s, hence you must output 11.

## Input Specification:

Each input file contains one test case which gives a non-empty string of length no more than 1000.
    
## Output Specification:

For each test case, simply print the maximum length in a line.

## Sample Input:

    Is PAT&TAP symmetric?
    
## Sample Output:
    
    11
    
## my own thoughts
 
My thought is just use brute force to traverse each elements and find the longest symmetric subsequence. The time complexity is O(n^3),which is quite large. Then I added some pruning operation to make it a bit faster, which is to compare the length of the subsequence which symmetry is TBD and longest subsequence which already exists. If the former is shorter than the latter,then there is no need to compare. And I passed all testpoints and got full grades.  
  
    {% highlight ruby %}
    #include <iostream>
	#include <cstdio>
	#include <cstring>
	using namespace std;

	bool issym(char str[],int a,int b)
	{
		int i=a,j=b;
		while(i<j)
		{
			if(str[i]!=str[j])
				return false;
			i++;
			j--;
		}
		return true;
	}
	int main()
	{
		char str[1010];
		cin.getline(str,1010,'\n');
		int i,j,k;
		int sta,_end;

		sta=_end=-1;
		i=0,j=strlen(str)-1;
		while(i<=j)
		{
			k=j;
			while(i+(_end-sta)<=k)
			{
				if(issym(str,i,k))
				{
					_end=k;
					sta=i;
				}
				k--;
			}
			i++;
		}
		if(_end!=-1)
			cout<<_end-sta+1;
		else
			cout<<0;
		return 0;
	}
	{% endhighlight %}
---	
## reflection

There do exists some imporvements,which is to use DP(dynamic planning) to solve this problem. Actually,this sort of problem has a common name called Longest palindrome substring.  
Because the problem of dynamic programming type is difficult, I will update the code on it when I specialize in the topic of dynamic planning programming later on.

---
  If you find there are faults in the source codes, any method connecting with me is welcomed.
