---
layout: post
title: "PAT-A 1052"
description: "code solutions"
categories: [PAT-A]
tags: [C++]
redirect_from:
  - /2019/02/28/
---
PAT-A 1052

1052 Linked List Sorting （25 分）

A linked list consists of a series of structures, which are not necessarily adjacent in memory. We assume that each structure contains an integer key and a Next pointer to the next structure. Now given a linked list, you are supposed to sort the structures according to their key values in increasing order.

## Input Specification:

Each input file contains one test case. For each case, the first line contains a positive N (<10^5) and an address of the head node, where N is the total number of nodes in memory and the address of a node is a 5-digit positive integer. NULL is represented by −1.

Then N lines follow, each describes a node in the format:  
`Address Key Next`  
where Address is the address of the node in memory, Key is an integer in [−10^5,10^5], and Next is the address of the next node. It is guaranteed that all the keys are distinct and there is no cycle in the linked list starting from the head node.
    
## Output Specification:

For each test case, the output format is the same as that of the input, where N is the total number of nodes in the list and all the nodes must be sorted order.

## Sample Input:

	5 00001
	11111 100 -1
	00001 0 22222
	33333 100000 11111
	12345 -1 33333
	22222 1000 12345
    
## Sample Output:
    
	5 12345
	12345 -1 00001
	00001 0 11111
	11111 100 22222
	22222 1000 33333
	33333 100000 -1
    
## my own thoughts
 
My personal thought is to build a static array so as to stimulate the linklist,and build another linklist to set the array in order. In order to save time and space, I use a int array to only store the next address of the new node,and seek the data in the orignal node array.  
But I can't pass the 2nd and the 5th test points, and I only got 22/25 points. I couldn't find any fault in my code,so I just put it on and continue to find bugs later on. If you find any bug in my code,welcome to comment in the comment area at the bottom of this article.  
  
    {% highlight ruby %}
        #include <cstdio>
    #include <iostream>
    using namespace std;
    const int INF = 100010;
    typedef struct node
    {
        int next;
        int data;
    }node;
    int main()
    {
        int n,addr;
        int start;
        int minv=INF,mini=-1;
        node p[100010];
        int q[100010];
        fill(q,q+100010,-1);

        cin>>n>>start;
        for(int i=0;i<n;++i)
        {
            cin>>addr;
            cin>>p[addr].data>>p[addr].next;
            if(p[addr].data<minv)
            {
                minv = p[addr].data;
                mini = addr;
            }
        }
        int ptr = start;
        int ptrm = mini;
        while(ptr!=-1)
        {
            ptrm=mini;
            while(q[ptrm]!=-1&&p[ptr].data>=p[q[ptrm]].data)
                ptrm=q[ptrm];
            int tmpptr=mini;

            int tmp=q[ptrm];
            q[ptrm]=ptr;
            q[ptr]=tmp;
            ptr=p[ptr].next;
            if(ptr==start)
                ptr=p[ptr].next;
        }
        ptrm=mini;
        printf("%d %05d\n",n,mini);
        while(q[ptrm]!=-1)
        {
            printf("%05d %d %05d\n",ptrm,p[ptrm].data,q[ptrm]);
            ptrm=q[ptrm];
        }
        printf("%05d %d -1",ptrm,p[ptrm].data);
        return 0;
    }
	{% endhighlight %}
---	
## reflection

There remains unsettled since I haven't find bugs in my code.  

---
  If you find there are faults in the source codes, any method connecting with me is welcomed.
