---
layout: post
title: "PAT-A 1017"
description: "code solutions"
categories: [PAT-A]
tags: [C++]
redirect_from:
  - /2019/02/12/
---
PAT-A 1017

1017 Queueing at Bank （25 分）  

Suppose a bank has K windows open for service. There is a yellow line in front of the windows which devides the waiting area into two parts. All the customers have to wait in line behind the yellow line, until it is his/her turn to be served and there is a window available. It is assumed that no window can be occupied by a single customer for more than 1 hour.  

Now given the arriving time T and the processing time P of each customer, you are supposed to tell the average waiting time of all the customers. 

## Input Specification:

Each input file contains one test case. For each case, the first line contains 2 numbers: N (≤104) - the total number of customers, and K (≤100) - the number of windows. Then N lines follow, each contains 2 times: HH:MM:SS - the arriving time, and P - the processing time in minutes of a customer. Here HH is in the range [00, 23], MM and SS are both in [00, 59]. It is assumed that no two customers arrives at the same time.
Notice that the bank opens from 08:00 to 17:00. Anyone arrives early will have to wait in line till 08:00, and anyone comes too late (at or after 17:00:01) will not be served nor counted into the average.

## Output Specification:

For each test case, print in one line the average waiting time of all the customers, in minutes and accurate up to 1 decimal place.

## Sample Input:

	7 3
	07:55:00 16
	17:00:01 2
	07:59:59 15
	08:01:00 60
	08:00:00 30
	08:00:02 2
	08:03:00 10
    
## Sample Output:
    
    8.2
    
## my own thoughts
 
This problem is literally simple,just use a vector to store the list of customer and use an array to simulate windows of bank.
However,the most annoying and difficult to find bug is if a man come after 5:00 pm,then he cannot be served and thus he doesn't belong to the average people,which means when we compute the average time,the denominator is not n but the number of people who come before 5:00pm. If you cannot detect that bug, the first test point won't be passed.
  
    {% highlight ruby %}
    #include <iostream>
	#include <cstdio>
	#include <vector>
	#include <algorithm>
	using namespace std;

	typedef struct
	{
		int prot;
		int time;
	}people;
	int cmp(people a,people b)
	{
		return a.time<b.time;
	}
	int main()
	{
		int n,k;
		cin>>n>>k;
		vector<people> p;
		for(int i=0;i<n;++i)
		{
			people tmp;
			int hh,mm,ss;
			scanf("%d:%d:%d %d",&hh,&mm,&ss,&tmp.prot);
			tmp.time = ss+mm*60+hh*3600;
			tmp.prot*=60;
			if(tmp.time>61200)
				continue;
			p.push_back(tmp);
		}

		sort(p.begin(),p.end(),cmp);
		double waittime=0.0;
		int* clock = new int[k];
		for(int i=0;i<k;++i)
			clock[i]=28800;
		for(int i=0;i<p.size();++i)
		{
			int ind=0;
			for(int j=0;j<k;++j)
				if(clock[j]<clock[ind])
					ind = j;
			if(p[i].time<clock[ind])
			{
				waittime+=(clock[ind]-p[i].time);
				clock[ind]+=p[i].prot;
			}
			else
				clock[ind]=p[i].time+p[i].prot;
		}
		if(p.size()==0)
			printf("0.0");
		else
			printf("%.1f",waittime/60.0/p.size());
		return 0;
	}
	{% endhighlight %}
---	
## reflection

Frankly I think my method is quite fast and simple,which I can't find any way to improve it, if you have some constructive enhancement,I hope you could comment at the bottom of this article:).

---
  If you find there are faults in the source codes, any method connecting with me is welcomed.
